hey this is pressure Locker this problem
was shared on Facebook with the claim
that only one in a thousand people could
figure it out it soon generated
controversy and it now has over three
million comments in this video I'm going
to present what many people believe to
be the correct answer can you figure it
out give it a try before watching the
video so most people agree that the
answer should be 96 the pattern in each
line is to take the first number and add
it to the product of the first and the
second number so for example the first
line is 1 plus 4 so we should interpret
1 plus 4 as 1 plus 1 times 4 this will
be equal to 5 the second line which is 2
plus 5 should be interpreted as 2 plus 2
times 5 2 times 5 is 10 and adding 2
gets us to the result of 12 the third
line of 3 plus 6
should be interpreted as 3 plus 3 times
6 and that is equal to 21 this means the
final line of 8 plus 11 should be
interpreted as 8 plus 8 times 11 8 times
11 is 88 and adding 8 gets us to the
answer of 96
there were people however who disagreed
with this interpretation they believed
the answer should have been a different
number which is 40 how did they arrive
at this answer they thought the puzzle
should be interpreted as a running total
where you add up the numbers from each
line so the first line of 1 plus 4
equals 5 is a correct mathematical
result
in the next line where you have two plus
five you should preface that by adding
the result of five from the previous
line when we add five to two plus five
we get the answer of twelve and that
matches what's given in the original
problem we now add twelve to three plus
six and that gets us to 21 this
interpretation is consistent with the
information that we're giving if we
continue the pattern we then take 21 and
add that to 8 plus 11 and that gets to
the other answer of 40 so many people
were debating whether the answer should
be 96 or whether it should be 40 there
is a way to reconcile these two
approaches and we can see that the
answer of 96 can be justified under the
running total method so let's see how
that's possible so when we have this
running total of the different numbers
in each line notice that the first
numbers we're adding are 1 and then 2
and then 3
if we continue this pattern we might
think that the next number we should be
adding should be 4 what about the second
number well we have 4 plus 5 plus 6
logic would suggest that the next number
should be 7 so the next line should be 4
plus 7 now this is not part of our
original puzzle but if we were to
continue the pattern from the original
puzzle we have this extra missing line
that could be placed in there so now
what happens if we take our previous
total of 21 and add it to 4 plus 7 we
get the answer of 32 what would be the
next line well we want to increase 4 by
1 to get 5 and we want to increase 7 by
one to get 8 so the next line would be 5
plus 8 we therefore take 30
two plus five plus eight and that gets
us to 45 we continue the pattern the
next line should be six plus nine we add
that to our previous result of 45 we get
60 then we have seven plus ten we add
that to 60 to get 77 and when we
continue the pattern we once again get
to 8 plus 11 and we want to add our
previous result of 77 and then we get
the answer of 96
so under this interpretation we also get
to the answer of 96 we only need to
adjust the running total by putting in
some of these missing lines that are not
part of the original puzzle but they
make sense if we were to increase the
first number and the second number in
each line so under this interpretation
of the running total we also get that
the answer is 96 therefore it seems very
likely that the answer to this puzzle
should be 96 because under either
interpretation we get to this result
what do you think did you get to 96
thanks for watching this video please
subscribe to my channel I make videos on
math and game theory you can catch me on
my blog mind your decisions which you
can follow on Facebook Google+ and
patreon you can catch me on social media
at pressure Locker and if you liked this
video please check out my books there
are links in the video description